# Assignment

On the main page there is an option `Zusweisung` in the navigation bar.
This takes you to a new page.
On this page, you can see on the left side all active [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk). 
With regard to [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk), active means that they are currently still employed as [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk).  
For each [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) it is possible to see more details by expanding the card using the button provided.
In addition, each [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) has been given a profile picture, 
which is automatically generated by the initials to make the application more vivid.
All [Praktikumsstellen](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle) from the recently passed [Meldezeitraum](../glossary.md#meldezeitraum) are displayed on the right-hand side. 
The [Praktikumsstellen](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle) are grouped according to their [Dienststelle](../glossary.md#dienststelle).
Each main-[Dienststelle](../glossary.md#dienststelle) can be folded out and then displays a list of all associated [Praktikumsstellen](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle). 
If no [Praktikumsstellen](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle) from this [Dienststelle](../glossary.md#dienststelle) has been reported, no fold-out element is displayed.
If the [Dienststelle](../glossary.md#dienststelle) provided information, that their team has a [Planstelle](../glossary.md#planstelle),
it will be marked with a special icon (mdi-account-star).
Each [Praktikumsstellen](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle) can be expanded again by clicking on the arrow or the card itself to display more details with all the information about the position.

## Assign [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk) to [Praktikumsstellen](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle)

To assign a [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) to a [Praktikumsstelle](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle),
all that has to be done is drag the [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) over the desired [Praktikumsstelle](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle) and drop it there.
If everything is all right, then the name of the [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) will be shown underneath the [Praktikumsstelle](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle),
 the background changes to grey and feedback is given if it was successful.
If there is already a [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) on the desired [Praktikumsstelle](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle),
then it is not possible to drop another [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) there.

### Warnings when assigning [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk)

When assigning [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk), it can happen that the [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) and [Praktikumsstelle](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle) don't match in certain criteria.
In this case a waring window appear when trying to drop the [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk) onto the [Praktikumsstelle](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle).

Warnings that can appear:
- [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) is a [Studentin](./../glossary.md#studentin) but an [Auszubildende](./../glossary.md#auszubildende) was requested.
- [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) is an [Auszubildende](./../glossary.md#auszubildende) but a [Studentin](./../glossary.md#studentin) was requested.
- [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) has a different major than requested
- [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) is not the person the [Praktikumsstelle](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle) specifically requested.
- [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) is in a lower study semester than the minimum requested.
- [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) is in a lower [Lehrjahr](./../glossary.md#lehrjahr) than the minimum requested.

**⚠** All warnings *can* be ignored, but it is advised to reevaluate an assignment if a warning appears

### Unassinging [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk)
When a [Nwk](./../glossary.md#nwk) is assigned to a [Praktikumsstelle](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle) a little chip with the name of the Nwk shows this assignment.
Next to the name you can find a little x. By clicking on this x you can unassign the Nwk. When doing so,
a dialog will appear asking you if you really want to continue. When clicking yes the unassigning will be executed
and the Nwk will be selectable in the list on the left. When clicking no, the process will be cancelled and
nothing will be changed.

### Send successful assignment mails
If the [Ausbildungsleitung](./../glossary.md#örtliche-ausbildungsleitung) is satisfied with the assignment of the [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk) to the [Praktikumsstellen](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle),
then the [Ausbildungsleitung](./../glossary.md#örtliche-ausbildungsleitung) can send the assignment mails to the [Örtliche Ausbilderin](./../glossary.md#örtliche-ausbilderin).
To do this, the [Ausbildungsleitung](./../glossary.md#örtliche-ausbildungsleitung) must click on the `Mails Senden` button.
A dialog will appear requesting the [Ausbildungsleitung](./../glossary.md#örtliche-ausbildungsleitung) to fill in the [Zuweisungszeiträume](./../glossary.md#zuweisungszeitraum).
After that they can click on the `Weiter` button.
A dialog will appear asking if the [Ausbildungsleitung](./../glossary.md#örtliche-ausbildungsleitung) is sure to send the mails.
Now the mails will be sent to the [Örtliche Ausbilderin](./../glossary.md#örtliche-ausbilderin), which got the [Nwks](./../glossary.md#nwk) assigned to them.
The [Ausbildungsleitung](./../glossary.md#örtliche-ausbildungsleitung) will be redirected to the assignment page after that.
If some errors occurred during the sending of the mails, a dialog will appear telling the [Ausbildungsleitung](./../glossary.md#örtliche-ausbildungsleitung),
which [Praktikumsstellen](./../glossary.md#praktikumsstelle) could not be informed by mail. Currently, there is no way to resend the mails. 
This has to be done manually.
The other mails will still be sent.